Since their introduction, social networking sites (SNSs) such as Friendster, MySpace, Facebook, Orkut, LinkedIn, and
myriad others have attracted hundreds of millions of users, many of whom have integrated SNSs into their daily lives to
communicate with friends, send e-mails, solicit opinions or votes, organize events, spread ideas, find jobs, and more .
Facebook, an SNS launched in February 2004, now overwhelms numerous aspects of everyday life, and it has become an
immensely popular societal obsession . Facebook members can create self-descriptive profiles that include links to the
profiles of their ‘‘friends’’, who may or may not be offline friends. Facebook requires that anybody who wants to be added as
a friend have the relationship confirmed, so Facebook friendships define a network (graph) of reciprocated ties (undirected
edges) that connect individual users. (In this article, we use the words ‘‘edge’’ and ‘‘link’’ interchangeably.)
The emergence of SNSs such as Facebook and MySpace has revolutionized the availability of social and demographic data,
which has in turn had a significant impact on the study of social networks . It is possible to acquire very large data
sets from SNSs, though of course the population online and actively using SNSs is a biased sample of the broader population.
Services like Facebook also contain large quantities of demographic data, as many users now voluntarily reveal voluminous
amounts of detailed personal information. An especially exciting aspect of studying SNSs is that they provide an opportunity
to examine social organization at unprecedented levels of size and detail, and they also provide new venues to test sampling
effects . One can investigate the structure of an SNS like Facebook to examine it as a network in its own right, and ideally
one can also try to take one step further and infer interesting insights regarding the offline social networks that an SNS
imperfectly parallels. Most people tend to draw their Facebook friends from their real-life social networks , so it is not
entirely unreasonable to use a Facebook network as a proxy for an offline social network. (Of course, as noted by Hogan ,
one does need to be aware of significant limitations when taking such a leap of faith.)
Social scientists, information scientists, and physical scientists have all jumped on the SNS data bandwagon . It would
be impossible to exhaustively cite all of the research in this area, so we only highlight a few results; additional references
can be found in the review by Boyd and Ellison  also conducted an empirical study of Facebook and
MySpace, concluding that Facebook tends to appeal to a more elite and educated cross section than MySpace. The company
RapLeaf  has compiled global demographics on the age and gender usage of numerous SNSs. Other recent studies have
investigated the manifestation on SNSs of race and ethnicity .
Other research has illustrated that online friendship networks can be exploited to improve shopper recommendation
systems on websites such as Amazon . (Presumably, this is becoming increasingly prominent in practice.)
Several papers have attempted to increase understanding of how SNS friendships form. For example, Kumar et al. 
examined preferential attachment models of SNS growth, concluding that it is important to consider different classes
of users. Lampe et al.  explored the relationship between profile elements and number of Facebook friends, and
other scholars have examined the importance of geography  to online friendship
formation. Other papers have established the existence of strong correlations between network participation and website
activity, including the motivation of people to join particular groups ,
online messages and friendship formation , and the role of explicit
ideological relationship designations in affecting voting behavior  used Facebook data for an entire
class of freshmen at an unnamed, private American university to conduct a quantitative study of social networks and cultural
preferences. The same data set was also used to examine user privacy settings on Facebook .
In the present paper, we study the complete Facebook networks of 100 American colleges and universities from a single-
day snapshot in September 2005. This paper is a sequel to our previous research on 5 of these institutions , in which we
developed some of the methodology that we employ here. In September 2005, one needed a .edu e-mail address to become
a member of Facebook. We thus ignore links between nodes at different institutions and study the Facebook networks
of the 100 institutions as 100 separate networks. For each network, we have categorical data encompassing the gender,
major, class year, high school, and residence (e.g., dormitory, House, fraternity, etc.) of the users. We examine homophily
and community structure (network partitions that are obtained algorithmically) for each of the networks and compare the
community structure to partitions based on the given categorical data. We thereby compare and contrast the organizations of
the 100 different Facebook networks, which arguably allows us to compare and contrast the organizations of the underlying
university social networks to which they provide an imperfect counterpart. In addition to the inherent interest of these
Facebook networks, our investigation is important for subsequent use of these networks – which were formed via ostensibly
the same generative mechanism – as benchmark examples for numerous types of computations, such as new community
detection methods.
The remainder of this paper is organized as follows. We first discuss the Facebook data and present the methods that
we used for testing homophily at the dyad level and demographic organization at the community level. We then present
and discuss results on the largest connected components of the networks, student-only subnetworks, and single-gender
subnetworks. Finally, we summarize and discuss our findings.
